Preparing blogpost annoucing `safetensors` security audit + official support. (#1096)
huggingface/blog: safetensors-official.md

---
title: "🐶Safetensors is really safe and becoming the default"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/104_accelerate-large-models/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: Narsil
- user: stellaathena

> - user: Takyon236

Reviewer: for  guest users you should add `guest: true`

Author: Thanks !

---

> <h1>🐶Safetensors safe and becoming the default</h1>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<h1>🐶Safetensors audited as really safe and becoming the default</h1>
```

(maybe?)

Reviewer 3: Also to be synced with the yaml file :)

HuggingFace, in close collaboration with EleutherAI and StabilityAI, has ordered

> an external security audit of the `safetensors` library, which conclusions allow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
an external security audit of the `safetensors` library, whose conclusions allow
```
(not 100% sure of the grammar, but which is definitely not right)

all 3 organizations to move forward into making the library the default format
for saved models.

> [TrailOfBits](https://www.trailofbits.com/) is the security company that provided

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[TrailOfBits](https://www.trailofbits.com/) is the security company that performed
```

maybe?

> the audit, which conclusions can be found here: [Report](/blog/assets/safetensors-official/full-report.pdf)

Reviewer 2: i would host the PDF somewhere else (in a Hub repo as a LFS file, to get CDN speeds?)

Author: Fair enough. Done.

> the audit, which conclusions can be found here: [Report](/blog/assets/safetensors-official/full-report.pdf)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the audit, whose conclusions can be found here: [Report](/blog/assets/safetensors-official/full-report.pdf)
```

Same comment as the other similar one by @julien-c

The following blogpost explains the origin of the library, why this audit report is important,
and the next steps

# What is safetensors ?

🐶[Safetensors](https://github.com/huggingface/safetensors) is a library
for saving and loading tensors in the most common frameworks (PyTorch, Tensorflow, jax, paddlepaddle, numpy..)

Let's see an example in PyTorch:
```python
import torch
from safetensors.torch import load_file, save_file

weights = {"embeddings": torch.zeros((10, 100))}
save_file(weights, "model.safetensors")
weights2 = load_file("model.safetensors")
```

And that's pretty much it.

> It has a number of [cool features](https://github.com/huggingface/safetensors#yet-another-format-) compared to other formats. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It has a number of [cool features](https://github.com/huggingface/safetensors#yet-another-format-) compared to other formats, most notably that files are _safe_ as we'll see later.
```

Just a minor suggestion, as the next paragraph mentions "in order to prevent issues" and then we talk about "running safetensors files safely", but imo the rationale for preferring safetensors has not yet been established at this point.

When you're using `transformers`, if `safetensors` is installed, then those files will already
be used preferentially in order to prevent issues. Which means doing:

```
pip install safetensors
```

is likely to be the only thing needed to run safetensors files safely.

Going forward and thanks to the validation of the library, `safetensors` will now be installed by
default. The next step is saving models directly in `safetensors` by default.

> We also would like to acknowledge the usage of `safetensors` outside our companies ecosystem

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We also would like to acknowledge the usage of `safetensors` in the wider ML ecosystem
```
(maybe)

> - [CiviAI](https://civitai.com/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [CivitAI](https://civitai.com/)
```

- [stable-diffusion-webui](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui)
- [dfdx](https://github.com/coreylowman/dfdx)
- [Llama-cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp/blob/e6a46b0ed1884c77267dc70693183e3b7164e0e0/convert.py#L537)

> # Why creating something new ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Why create something new ?
```

The creation of this library came from the issue that PyTorch uses `pickle` under
the hood, which is inherently `unsafe`. [1](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/security-pickle), [2, video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2ethDz9KnLk), [3](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/issues/52596)

`unsafe` here means that someone could write a malicious file in such a way

> that a user could download and use a model, and without his knowledge attackers

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
that a user could download and use a model, and without their knowledge attackers
```

> had won full control of his computer and stolen all his bitcoins.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
could gain full control of the computer and steal all their bitcoins 😓.
```

This is perfectly acknowledged by Pytorch [doc](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.load.html).

> Since HuggingFace is now a hub where anyone can upload and share models, we need to make

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since HuggingFace is now a hub where anyone can upload and share models, we need to work towards making
```
it's a process

Reviewer 2: + maybe here @McPatate can add a super short sentence to say we still try to improve the security of pickle files + link to the doc for the malware scanner

Reviewer 3: In addition, maybe "is now a hub" -> "provides a hub" (or "is a hub")

sure that users cannot get infected by loading malicious models.

Of course there are other file formats out there and the reason to create something
new is that none seemed to fully comply with the [ideal set of requirements](https://github.com/huggingface/safetensors#yet-another-format-).

> In addition to being safe, the formats allow `lazy-loading` and generally faster loads (something like 100x faster on cpu).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition to being safe, the format allows `lazy-loading` and generally faster load times (something like 100x faster on cpu).
```

Lazy loading means the ability to load only part of a tensor in an efficient manner.
This particular feature enables arbitrary sharding with efficient inference libraries such as [text-generation-inference](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference) to load LLMs such as Llama, Starcoder etc.. on various hardware

> and exploit it to the maximum efficiency.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and exploit them with maximum efficiency.
```

> and exploit it to the maximum efficiency.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and exploit them with maximum efficiency.
```

Another benefit, is that because it loads so fast, and is framework agnostic we can use the format
to load models from the same file in PyTorch or Tensorflow.

# The security audit

Since `safetensors` main asset is providing safety guarantees, we wanted to make sure

> it actually delivered. That's why HuggingFace, EleutherAI and StabilityAI teamed up to get a external

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
it actually delivered. That's why HuggingFace, EleutherAI and StabilityAI teamed up to get an external
```

security audit to confirm it.

Important findings:

> - No critical security flaw leading to arbitry code execution was found.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- No critical security flaw leading to arbitrary code execution was found.
```

- Some imprecisions in the spec format were detected. (Fixed) 
- Some missing validation allowed polyglot files. (Fixed)
- Lots of proposed improvements in the test suite. (Done)

> In the name of openess and transparency, all companies agreed to make the report

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the name of openness and transparency, all companies agreed to make the report
```

fully public:

[Full report](/blog/assets/safetensors-official/full-report.pdf)

One major kudos, is that because the library is written in Rust, a potential
flaw in the TensorIndexer which might have actually been a potential Arbitrary

> Code Execution kind of flaws, is was just is a unwarranted panic, so perfectly safe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Code Execution kind of flaws, results just in a unwarranted panic, so perfectly safe.
```
(?)

- ~Create `safetensors`~. Done
- ~Verify it works and can deliver on all promises (lazy load for llms, single file for all frameworks, faster loads)~. Done
- ~Verify it's safe (today's announcement)~. Done
- ~Make `safetensors` a core dependency (already done, or soon to come).~. Done
- Make `safetensors` the default saving format. Will happen in a few months when we have enough feedback
  to make sure it will cause as little disruption as possible, and enough users already have the library
  to be able to load new models even on relatively old `transformers` version. **Next step**

As for `safetensors` itself, we're looking into adding more advanced features for LLM training
which have their own set of issues with current formats. This shouldn't impact
using the files.

Also we're looking to releasing a `1.0` after a few month after being a `transformers`
core lib. We are considering that it would be enough to be super largely tested
because of the large user base, and it would be much easier to commit.
Also the format and the lib have had very little modifications since it's inception
which is a good sign of stability to us.

> We're glad we can make ML one step closer to being safe and efficient for all !

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We're glad we can make ML one step closer to being safe and efficient for all!
```

---
title: "🐶Safetensors audited as really safe and becoming the default"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/142_safetensors_official/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: Narsil
- user: stellaathena
  guest: true
- user: Takyon236
  guest: true
---

<h1>🐶Safetensors audited as really safe and becoming the default</h1>

> Hugging Face, in close collaboration with EleutherAI and StabilityAI, has ordered

Author: Sure !

and the next steps

# What is safetensors?

🐶[Safetensors](https://github.com/huggingface/safetensors) is a library
  for saving and loading tensors in the most common frameworks (PyTorch, Tensorflow, Jax, PaddlePaddle, NumPy..)

Let's see an example in PyTorch:
```python
import torch
from safetensors.torch import load_file, save_file

weights = {"embeddings": torch.zeros((10, 100))}
save_file(weights, "model.safetensors")
weights2 = load_file("model.safetensors")
```

And that's pretty much it.
It has many [cool features](https://github.com/huggingface/safetensors#yet-another-format-) compared to other formats, most notably that loading files is _safe_ as we'll see later. 

When you're using `transformers`, if `safetensors` is installed, then those files will already
be used preferentially to prevent issues. Which means doing:

```
pip install safetensors
```

is likely to be the only thing needed to run safetensors files safely.

Going forward and thanks to the validation of the library, `safetensors` will now be installed by
default. The next step is saving models directly in `safetensors` by default.

> We also would like to acknowledge the usage of `safetensors` in the wider ML ecosystem

Reviewer 5: To be clear, this is them being early adopters of the library right? I think it might make sense to frame this as "We are thrilled to see that the `safetensors` library is already seeing use in the ML ecosystem, including:

Author: I took your wording which is a bit more enthusiastic.

security audit to confirm it.

Important findings:

- No critical security flaw leading to arbitrary code execution was found.
- Some imprecisions in the spec format were detected. (Fixed) 
- Some missing validation allowed [polyglot files](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polyglot_(computing)). (Fixed)
- Lots of proposed improvements in the test suite. (Done)

In the name of openness and transparency, all companies agreed to make the report
fully public:

[Full report](https://huggingface.co/datasets/safetensors/trail_of_bits_audit_repot/resolve/main/SOW-TrailofBits-EleutherAI_HuggingFace-v1.2.pdf)

One import thing to note is that because the library is written in Rust, a major
flaw was avoided. In the TensorIndexer there was a lack of bound checks. In C or C++ this might
have lead to an Arbitrary Code Execution, but since `safetensors` is written in Rust, it simply results in a panic, so perfectly safe.

Note: This report doesn't mean that there is no flaw because it's impossible to 
prove the absence of flaws, however, it's a major step in giving reassurance that it
is indeed safe to use.

# Going forward

> For `transformers` (and HuggingFace at large, it includes all major projects) the master plan is as follows:

Reviewer 5: Do we want to generalize this to include Stability AI and EleutherAI? We are planning on adding support for converting models trained with GPT-NeoX to SafeTensors (and include it natively, if we can help @Narsil solve the performance issues)

---

> title: "🐶Safetensors audited as really safe and becoming the default"

Reviewer: You'll also need to add the post to https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/main/_blog.yml

Author: I know, but it tends to cause merge conflicts, so waiting for the last moment :)

Reviewer 6: wdyt about renaming the file to `safetensors` rather than `safetensors-official` so that the url can be hf.co/blog/safetensors rather than hf.co/blog/safetensors-official ?

Reviewer 2: or `safetensors-security-audit` or `safetensors-official-support`

> thumbnail: /blog/assets/104_accelerate-large-models/thumbnail.png

Reviewer: To add

Reviewer: https://github.com/huggingface/blog#how-to-write-an-article- might help

Reviewer: Thanks to @simoninithomas for it!

Author: I did what I could, but happy to get some help to do something more appealing (both image and text ! )

authors:
- user: Narsil
- user: stellaathena
  guest: true
- user: Takyon236
  guest: true
---

<h1>🐶Safetensors audited as really safe and becoming the default</h1>

> HuggingFace, in close collaboration with EleutherAI and StabilityAI, has ordered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hugging Face, in close collaboration with EleutherAI and StabilityAI, has ordered
```

an external security audit of the `safetensors` library, whose conclusions allow
all 3 organizations to move forward into making the library the default format
for saved models.

[TrailOfBits](https://www.trailofbits.com/) is the security company that performed
the audit, whose conclusions can be found here: [Report](https://huggingface.co/datasets/safetensors/trail_of_bits_audit_repot/resolve/main/SOW-TrailofBits-EleutherAI_HuggingFace-v1.2.pdf)

The following blog post explains the origin of the library, why this audit report is important,
and the next steps

# What is safetensors?

🐶[Safetensors](https://github.com/huggingface/safetensors) is a library

> for saving and loading tensors in the most common frameworks (PyTorch, Tensorflow, jax, paddlepaddle, numpy..)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  for saving and loading tensors in the most common frameworks (PyTorch, Tensorflow, Jax, PaddlePaddle, NumPy..)
```

Let's see an example in PyTorch:
```python
import torch
from safetensors.torch import load_file, save_file

weights = {"embeddings": torch.zeros((10, 100))}
save_file(weights, "model.safetensors")
weights2 = load_file("model.safetensors")
```

And that's pretty much it.

> It has many [cool features](https://github.com/huggingface/safetensors#yet-another-format-) compared to other formats, most notably that files are _safe_ as we'll see later. 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
It has many [cool features](https://github.com/huggingface/safetensors#yet-another-format-) compared to other formats, most notably that loading files is _safe_ as we'll see later. 
```
Every file is technically safe if you do nothing other than storing it no?

Author: You're technically correct, which is the best kind of correct.

```
pip install safetensors
```

is likely to be the only thing needed to run safetensors files safely.

Going forward and thanks to the validation of the library, `safetensors` will now be installed by
default. The next step is saving models directly in `safetensors` by default.

We also would like to acknowledge the usage of `safetensors` in the wider ML ecosystem

- [CivitAI](https://civitai.com/)
- [stable-diffusion-webui](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui)
- [dfdx](https://github.com/coreylowman/dfdx)
- [Llama-cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp/blob/e6a46b0ed1884c77267dc70693183e3b7164e0e0/convert.py#L537)

# Why create something new?

The creation of this library came from the issue that PyTorch uses `pickle` under
the hood, which is inherently `unsafe`. [1](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/security-pickle), [2, video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2ethDz9KnLk), [3](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/issues/52596)

`unsafe` here means that someone could write a malicious file in such a way
that a user could download and use a model, and without their knowledge attackers
could gain full control of the computer and steal all their bitcoins 😓.

> This is perfectly acknowledged by Pytorch [doc](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.load.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is perfectly acknowledged by PyTorch [docs](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.load.html).
```

Since HuggingFace is now a hub where anyone can upload and share models, we need to work toward making
sure that users cannot get infected by loading malicious models.

We are also taking steps in making sure the existing PyTorch files are not malicious but the best we can do is flag suspicious-looking files. We cannot be sure they are malicious, nor be sure they are safe.

Of course, there are other file formats out there, and the reason to create something
new is that none seemed to fully comply with the [ideal set of requirements](https://github.com/huggingface/safetensors#yet-another-format-).

In addition to being safe, the format allows `lazy-loading` and generally faster load times (something like 100x faster on CPU).

Lazy loading means the ability to load only part of a tensor efficiently.
This particular feature enables arbitrary sharding with efficient inference libraries such as [text-generation-inference](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference) to load LLMs such as Llama, Starcoder, etc.. on various hardware
and exploit them with the maximum efficiency.

Another benefit is that because it loads so fast, and is framework agnostic we can use the format

> to load models from the same file in PyTorch or Tensorflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to load models from the same file in PyTorch or TensorFlow.
```

# The security audit

> Since `safetensors` main asset is providing safety guarantees, we wanted to make sure

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Since `safetensors`' main asset is providing safety guarantees, we wanted to make sure
```

> it delivered. That's why HuggingFace, EleutherAI, and StabilityAI teamed up to get an external

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it delivered. That's why Hugging Face, EleutherAI, and StabilityAI teamed up to get an external
```

security audit to confirm it.

Important findings:

- No critical security flaw leading to arbitrary code execution was found.
- Some imprecisions in the spec format were detected. (Fixed) 

> - Some missing validation allowed polyglot files. (Fixed)

Author: https://letmegooglethat.com/?q=polyglot+files

:D

> - Some missing validation allowed polyglot files. (Fixed)

Reviewer 7: What I meant by that question was that it isn't obvious to everyone what polyglot files are and a small sentence explaining what they are might be useful to the reader 😄

> - Some missing validation allowed polyglot files. (Fixed)

Author: ```suggestion
- Some missing validation allowed [polyglot files](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polyglot_(computing)). (Fixed)
```

- Lots of proposed improvements in the test suite. (Done)

In the name of openness and transparency, all companies agreed to make the report
fully public:

> [Full report](/blog/assets/safetensors-official/full-report.pdf)

Author: ```suggestion
[Full report](https://huggingface.co/datasets/safetensors/trail_of_bits_audit_repot/resolve/main/SOW-TrailofBits-EleutherAI_HuggingFace-v1.2.pdf)
```

> [Full report](/blog/assets/safetensors-official/full-report.pdf)

Author: Done.

> One major kudos is that because the library is written in Rust, a potential
> flaw in the TensorIndexer which might have been a potential Arbitrary
> Code Execution kind of flaws, results just in an unwarranted panic, so perfectly safe.

Author: ```suggestion
One import thing to note is that because the library is written in Rust, a major
flaw was avoided. In the TensorIndexer there was a lack of bound checks. In C or C++ this might
have lead to an Arbitrary Code Execution, but since `safetensors` is written in Rust, it simply results in a panic, so perfectly safe.
```

Note: This report doesn't mean that there is no flaw because it's impossible to 
prove the absence of flaws, however, it's a major step in giving reassurance that it
is indeed safe to use.

# Going forward

For `transformers` (and HuggingFace at large, it includes all major projects) the master plan is as follows:

> - ~Create `safetensors`~. Done

Reviewer 7: Wouldn't using ticked checkboxes make it more legible than strikethrough here?
```suggestion
- [x] Create `safetensors`
```

> - ~Verify it works and can deliver on all promises (lazy load for llms, single file for all frameworks, faster loads)~. Done

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- [x] Verify it works and can deliver on all promises (lazy load for llms, single file for all frameworks, faster loads)
```

> - ~Verify it works and can deliver on all promises (lazy load for llms, single file for all frameworks, faster loads)~. Done

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- [x] Verify it works and can deliver on all promises (lazy load for llms, single file for all frameworks, faster loads)
```

- ~Verify it's safe (today's announcement)~. Done

> - ~Make `safetensors` a core dependency (already done, or soon to come).~. Done

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- [x] Make `safetensors` a core dependency (already done, or soon to come)
```

> - Make `safetensors` the default saving format. Will happen in a few months when we have enough feedback

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- [ ] Make `safetensors` the default saving format; this will happen in a few months when we have enough feedback
```

  to make sure it will cause as little disruption as possible, and enough users already have the library

>   to be able to load new models even on relatively old `transformers` versions. **Next step**

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  to be able to load new models even on relatively old `transformers` versions
```

As for `safetensors` itself, we're looking into adding more advanced features for LLM training
which have their own set of issues with current formats. This shouldn't impact

> using the files.

Reviewer 7: What are you trying to express with "This shouldn't impact using the files"?

Author: Current usage ?

Reviewer 7: I think you can remove the sentence altogether

> which have their own set of issues with current formats. This shouldn't impact
> using the files.

Author: ```suggestion
which have their own set of issues with current formats.
```

Also, we're looking to release a `1.0` after a few months after being a `transformers`
core lib. We are considering that it would be enough to be super largely tested

> because of the large user base, and it would be much easier to commit.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
because of the large user base, which would make it much easier to commit to.
```

The following blog post explains the origin of the library, why this audit report is important,
and the next steps

# What is safetensors?

🐶[Safetensors](https://github.com/huggingface/safetensors) is a library
  for saving and loading tensors in the most common frameworks (PyTorch, Tensorflow, Jax, PaddlePaddle, NumPy..)

Let's see an example in PyTorch:
```python
import torch
from safetensors.torch import load_file, save_file

weights = {"embeddings": torch.zeros((10, 100))}
save_file(weights, "model.safetensors")
weights2 = load_file("model.safetensors")
```

And that's pretty much it.
It has many [cool features](https://github.com/huggingface/safetensors#yet-another-format-) compared to other formats, most notably that loading files is _safe_ as we'll see later. 

When you're using `transformers`, if `safetensors` is installed, then those files will already
be used preferentially to prevent issues. Which means doing:

```
pip install safetensors
```

is likely to be the only thing needed to run safetensors files safely.

Going forward and thanks to the validation of the library, `safetensors` will now be installed by

> default. The next step is saving models directly in `safetensors` by default.

Author: ```suggestion
default in `transformers`. The next step is saving models directly in `safetensors` by default.
```

We are thrilled to see that the safetensors library is already seeing use in the ML ecosystem, including:

- [CivitAI](https://civitai.com/)
- [stable-diffusion-webui](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui)
- [dfdx](https://github.com/coreylowman/dfdx)
- [Llama-cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp/blob/e6a46b0ed1884c77267dc70693183e3b7164e0e0/convert.py#L537)

# Why create something new?

The creation of this library came from the issue that PyTorch uses `pickle` under
the hood, which is inherently `unsafe`. [1](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/security-pickle), [2, video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2ethDz9KnLk), [3](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/issues/52596)

`unsafe` here means that someone could write a malicious file in such a way
that a user could download and use a model, and without their knowledge attackers

> could gain full control of the computer and steal all their bitcoins 😓.

Author: > I assume that this is meant to be funny,

Half-joking unfortunately.

>  but this specific example is not true

Oh really ? It is entirely true. And this is a real vector users should understand.
Adding a real actionable threat associated is the only way we can *convey* why it's important. Emphasis that it's not necessarily sufficient.
We only added SSL everywhere *after* firesheep was released. So having a real example of a real threat is important imho.

Bitcoins is half-joking here. Being too serious, some people tend to discard with "but it didn't happen to me, therefore it cannot happen". Logic. 

I'm not saying this is the perfect example, but I really think having a real example of what kind of trouble can happen to a user is important here.

> This is perfectly acknowledged by PyTorch [docs](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.load.html).

Author: Thanks !

Since the Hugging Face Hub is a platform where anyone can upload and share models, we need to work toward making
sure that users cannot get infected by loading malicious models.

> We are also taking steps in making sure the existing PyTorch files are not malicious but the best we can do is flag suspicious-looking files. We cannot be sure they are malicious, nor be sure they are safe.

Author: > This sounds like a great way to set off a panic.

Unfortunately, I think to cause a panic, one would have to vectorize this for real, like firesheep enabled SSL everywhere.

I can remove 

>  We cannot be sure they are malicious, nor be sure they are safe.

It's probably the sentence you're having issues with.

Of course, there are other file formats out there, and the reason to create something

> new is that none seemed to fully comply with the [ideal set of requirements](https://github.com/huggingface/safetensors#yet-another-format-).

Author: You don't think giving the biggest benefits here is beneficial ?

LLMs are the rage atm, explaining how it enables running them more efficiently is something I think adds to the point.

> new is that none seemed to fully comply with the [ideal set of requirements](https://github.com/huggingface/safetensors#yet-another-format-).

Reviewer 5: This makes sense, but it's not clear that that's what you're doing. I would make it more explicit with words like "most notable"

Lazy loading means the ability to load only part of a tensor efficiently.
This particular feature enables arbitrary sharding with efficient inference libraries such as [text-generation-inference](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference) to load LLMs such as Llama, Starcoder, etc.. on various hardware
and exploit them with the maximum efficiency.

Another benefit is that because it loads so fast, and is framework agnostic we can use the format
to load models from the same file in PyTorch or TensorFlow.

# The security audit

Since `safetensors` main asset is providing safety guarantees, we wanted to make sure
it delivered. That's why Hugging Face, EleutherAI, and StabilityAI teamed up to get an external
security audit to confirm it.

Important findings:

- No critical security flaw leading to arbitrary code execution was found.
- Some imprecisions in the spec format were detected. (Fixed) 
- Some missing validation allowed [polyglot files](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polyglot_(computing)). (Fixed)
- Lots of proposed improvements in the test suite. (Done)

> In the name of openness and transparency, all companies agreed to make the report

Reviewer 5: For me, the major motivation is to promote user confidence. “Do your security validation in public where others can inspect it” is a long standing value in the ML Sec community.

Author: 100% agreed.

Transparency was the key word here for me. I thought it was exactly conveying that, being the opposite of

"Security through obscurity".

fully public:

[Full report](https://huggingface.co/datasets/safetensors/trail_of_bits_audit_repot/resolve/main/SOW-TrailofBits-EleutherAI_HuggingFace-v1.2.pdf)

> One import thing to note is that because the library is written in Rust, a major

Reviewer 5: This is potentially too technical for the median reader and it’s not clear to me why it’s important to convey.

Author: It could definitely be a bit too technical.

What I want to convey here  is that even if TrailOfBits missed something, we have part of the security ingrained in the choice of language which is an extra barrier security-wise.

I'll try to rewrite and simply explain that.

flaw was avoided. In the TensorIndexer there was a lack of bound checks. In C or C++ this might
have lead to an Arbitrary Code Execution, but since `safetensors` is written in Rust, it simply results in a panic, so perfectly safe.

Note: This report doesn't mean that there is no flaw because it's impossible to 

> prove the absence of flaws, however, it's a major step in giving reassurance that it

Reviewer 5: > prove the absence of flaws. However it’s a major step in giving reassurance that it

I don’t love the wording here but fixing the run-on sentence is a good start.

is indeed safe to use.

# Going forward

For Hugging Face, EleutherAI and StabilityAI the master plan is to embrace this format by default.

> EleutherAI is planning on adding support for converting models trained with GPT-NeoX to `safetensors`.

Reviewer 5: > EleutherAI has added support for evaluating models stored as `SafeTensors` in their [LM Evaluation Harness](https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness) and is working on supporting the format in their [GPT-NeoX](https://github.com/EleutherAI/gpt-neox) distributed training library.

Author: Included
